README.md, before:

Alayacare PHP backend skill test
==========================


### Application
The TODO App allows a user to add reminders of thing he needs to do. Here are the requirement for the app.
* Users can add, delete and see their todos.
* All the todos are private, users can't see other user's todos.
* Users must be logged in order to add/delete/see their todos.

Credentials:
* username: **user1**
* password: **user1**

#### Homepage:
![Homepage](/web/img/homepage.png?raw=true "Homepage")

#### Login page:
![Login page](/web/img/login-page.png?raw=true "Login page")

#### Todos:
![Todos](/web/img/todos.png?raw=true "Todos")

### Requirements
* php 5.5.9+
* mysql
* A github account

### Installation
**/!\ You need to fork this repository. See [How to submit your work?](#how-to-submit-your-work)**
```sh
php composer.phar install
cp config/local.json.dist config/local.json
mysql -u root <database> < resources/database.sql
mysql -u root <database> < resources/fixtures.sql
php -S localhost:1337 -t web/ web/index.php
```
You can change the database connection from the file `config/local.json`.

### Instructions

You will be asked to improve the code of this app with the following tasks.

You can complete the tasks in any order.

Separate your commits by task and use the following format for your commit messages: TASK-{task number}: {meaningful message}

### Tasks
* TASK 1: As a user I can't add a todo without a description.
* TASK 2: As a user I can mark a todo as completed.
    - Write a database migration script in `resources/`
* TASK 3: As a user I can view a todo in a JSON format.
    - Ex: /todo/{id}/json => {id: 1, user_id: 1, description: "Lorem Ipsum"}
* TASK 4: As a user I can see a confirmation message when I add/delete a todo.
    - Hint: Use session FlashBag.
* TASK 5: As a user I can see my list of todos paginated.
* TASK 6: Implement an ORM database access layer so we don’t have SQL in the controller code.

Extra tasks:
- Fix any bug you may find.
- Fix any security issue you may find.

### Documentation
This app use [Silex](http://silex.sensiolabs.org/), a  micro-framework based on the Symfony2 Components.
Documentation can be found here: http://silex.sensiolabs.org/documentation


### How to submit your work?

1. ##### First you need to fork this repository.
![Forking a repo](/web/img/fork.png?raw=true "Forking a repo")

2. ##### Then clone your fork locally.
![Cloning a repo](/web/img/clone.png?raw=true "Cloning a repo")

3. ##### Install the app locally. See the [Installation Guide] (#Installation).

4. ##### Once you've completed your work, you can submit a pull-request to the remote repository.
![ a Pull Request](/web/img/pull-request.png?raw=true "Creating a Pull Request")

5. ##### Review your changes and validate.
![Validating a Pull Request](/web/img/pull-request-review.png?raw=true "Validating a Pull Request")



And you're done!


More documentation on Github:
* https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/
* https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/

Commit message:

Task 2: Added status, title and datetime fields. Added doctrine cli-config and SQL migration file

README.md, after:

Alayacare PHP backend skill test
==========================


### Application
The TODO App allows a user to add reminders of thing he needs to do. Here are the requirement for the app.
* Users can add, delete and see their todos.
* All the todos are private, users can't see other user's todos.
* Users must be logged in order to add/delete/see their todos.

Credentials:
* username: **user1**
* password: **user1**

#### Homepage:
![Homepage](/web/img/homepage.png?raw=true "Homepage")

#### Login page:
![Login page](/web/img/login-page.png?raw=true "Login page")

#### Todos:
![Todos](/web/img/todos.png?raw=true "Todos")

### Requirements
* php 5.5.9+
* mysql
* A github account

### Installation
**/!\ You need to fork this repository. See [How to submit your work?](#how-to-submit-your-work)**
```sh
from the project root file:

php composer.phar install
cp config/local.json.dist config/local.json

1-) To create the db schema:
vendor/bin/doctrine orm:schema-tool:update --dump-sql
2-) To populate the db
vendor/bin/doctrine dbal:import resources/fixtures.sql
or
mysql -u root <database> < resources/fixtures.sql

php -S localhost:1337 -t web/ web/index.php
```
You can change the database connection from the file `config/local.json`.

### Instructions

You will be asked to improve the code of this app with the following tasks.

You can complete the tasks in any order.

Separate your commits by task and use the following format for your commit messages: TASK-{task number}: {meaningful message}

### Tasks
* TASK 1: As a user I can't add a todo without a description.
* TASK 2: As a user I can mark a todo as completed.
    - Write a database migration script in `resources/`
* TASK 3: As a user I can view a todo in a JSON format.
    - Ex: /todo/{id}/json => {id: 1, user_id: 1, description: "Lorem Ipsum"}
* TASK 4: As a user I can see a confirmation message when I add/delete a todo.
    - Hint: Use session FlashBag.
* TASK 5: As a user I can see my list of todos paginated.
* TASK 6: Implement an ORM database access layer so we don’t have SQL in the controller code.

Extra tasks:
- Fix any bug you may find.
- Fix any security issue you may find.

### Documentation
This app use [Silex](http://silex.sensiolabs.org/), a  micro-framework based on the Symfony2 Components.
Documentation can be found here: http://silex.sensiolabs.org/documentation


### How to submit your work?

1. ##### First you need to fork this repository.
![Forking a repo](/web/img/fork.png?raw=true "Forking a repo")

2. ##### Then clone your fork locally.
![Cloning a repo](/web/img/clone.png?raw=true "Cloning a repo")

3. ##### Install the app locally. See the [Installation Guide] (#Installation).

4. ##### Once you've completed your work, you can submit a pull-request to the remote repository.
![ a Pull Request](/web/img/pull-request.png?raw=true "Creating a Pull Request")

5. ##### Review your changes and validate.
![Validating a Pull Request](/web/img/pull-request-review.png?raw=true "Validating a Pull Request")



And you're done!


More documentation on Github:
* https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/
* https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/
